Fix some nits in the documentation (#541)
change-metrics/monocle: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing

This document provides some instructions to get started with Monocle development. It covers topics
such as running tests, running services w/o docker-compose or running the codegen.

> As explain in the [README](README.md), Monocle is composed of several services and during
> our current refactoring some services run though the Python runtime (legacy components) and other
> are built based on Haskell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As explained in the [README](README.md), Monocle is composed of several services, some services run though the Python runtime (legacy components) and the new one are built using the Haskell runtime.
```

## Run the APIv1 test (Python)

> :warning: Make sure to follow first the installation instructions in the README!

Reviewer: What is missing if you don't follow the instructions? I wonder if we should bother with installing the service for running those tests.

Tests rely on the Elasticsearch service so first you need to ensure the Elasticsearch container is running.
You can run the "docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml.dev up -d" or you can only run the Elasticsearch container by running "docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml.dev start elastic".

> (Or see below to use a symlink to the development compose instead instead)

Reviewer: Similarly, I think the test environment should be isolated from the install. Perhaps we should drop the docker-compose instruction and keep the podman (or docker) command below.

}
```

Then ensure NGINX service is started/reloaded on your system.

#### ElasticSearch

> Monocle relies on ElasticSearch as backend to store Changes and Change' events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monocle relies on ElasticSearch as backend to store Changes events.
```

```ShellSession
./contrib/start-elk.sh 9200
```

#### API

> To start the Monocle API then run the following commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the Monocle API run the following commands.
```

To reload modules when code is updated then type `:reload`.

> In addition you could run `ghcid -c 'cabal repl monocle'` in another terminal, then on every save in your IDE you'll see a list of the errors and warnings from ghc.

Reviewer: Perhaps we don't need to bother with `ghcid`, I think the ghci usage is good enough, then interested users are probably aware of ghcid, or other editor integrations.

Reviewer 2: I'll prefer to keep it if you don't mind to much.

> You might need to restart the repl and/or ghcid when new dependencies are
> added in the `monocle.cabal` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The REPL needs to be restarted when the `monocle.cabal` file is modified.
```

λ> run 9879 "http://localhost:9200" "../etc/config.yaml"
```

#### Web

> The Monocle React WebAPP (hot reload is enabled).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run this command to start the Monocle React live server with hot reload.
```

λ> withClient "http://127.0.0.1:8081" Nothing $ \client -> runMacroscope True "../etc/config.yaml" 30 client
```

### Running the services manually using NIX

This section describes how to start the Monocle services directly on your host using nix.

> Note that the above commands can be started in emacs buffer using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the commands below can be started in emacs buffer using:
```

```ShellSession
nix-shell --command launch-monocle-with-emacs
```

#### HTTP gateway (nginx)

```ShellSession
nix-shell --command nginx-start
```

#### ElasticSearch

```ShellSession

> nix-shell --command elk-start

Reviewer: Let's add here: `export ELASTIC_CONN=127.0.0.1:19200`

λ> withClient "http://localhost:18080" Nothing $ \client -> runMacroscope True "../etc/config.yaml" 30 client
```

## Contributing a new driver

> We do not provide specific documentation to cover that topic yet but the source code of
> the [GitLab driver](monocle/haskell/src/Lentille/GitLab/MergeRequests.hs) might be a good
> source of knowledge to hack on a new crawler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no specific documentation to cover that topic yet but the source code of
the [GitLab driver](monocle/haskell/src/Lentille/GitLab/MergeRequests.hs) might be a good
source of knowledge to hack on a new crawler.
```

## Running tests

Tests rely on the Elasticsearch service so first you need to ensure the ElasticSearch is running on your system. To start the service use the script `contrib/start-elk.sh` or the
related nix-shell command.

### On Python code base (legacy)

> Tests can be executed using (ajust the port the 19200 if you used the nix-shell command to start Elastic):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests can be executed using:
```

```ShellSession

> ELASTIC_CONN=127.0.0.1:9200 tox

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tox
```

```

### On the Haskell code base

> Tests can be executed using (ajust the port the 19200 if you used the nix-shell command to start Elastic):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests can be executed using:
```

```ShellSession
cd haskell

> ELASTIC_URL=http://localhost:9200 cabal test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cabal test
```
